## Editorial Policy

Original research papers are published in the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT** subject to the understanding that they have not been published elsewhere and have not been submitted to any other journal for publication. It is the responsibility of the author(s) to ensure that only unpublished original research is submitted to the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT** and that the research paper is not under consideration to any other journal for publication. If it is found even after the publication of the research paper in the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT** that the research paper has earlier been published in any other journal, it will be immediately withdrawn from the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT**. Peer-reviewed and citable conference proceedings are treated as prior publication. Original research papers posted on preprint servers are not treated as prior publication. Working paper without a peer review are not treated as prior publication even though they are distributed on the internet.

### Authors

Authorship of the paper submitted to the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT** must be limited to those who have made substantial contribution in terms of either conceptualisation or analysis and interpretation of data or development of new analytical tools or software or drafting and/or substantially revising the manuscript. The understanding is that all author(s) own the submitted version and subsequent revisions, if any. It is also understood that all author(s) have ensured the accuracy or integrity of the manuscript submitted to the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT**. Once the research paper is accepted for publication in the INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION ANDDEVELOPMENT, no change in the authorship will be permissible. The first author of the paper will be the corresponding author. The corresponding author will be responsible for communicating with all authors of the paper and seeking their approval in any changes in the manuscript. If any author of the paper informs the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT** that she or he has not approved the manuscript either original or revised, the paper will immediately be rejected and will not be published in the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT**.

### Plagiarism

Plagiarism is not permitted in any form and the evidence of plagiarism will result in immediate rejection of the paper by the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT**. Plagiarism includes substantial unattributed textual copying of published and unpublished work of others without appropriate citation. The **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT** follows guidelines laid down by the Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE) in dealing with cases of suspected plagiarism.

### Review Process

All research papers submitted to the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT** for publication will be reviewed through a double-blind review process comprising of two steps. At the first step of the review process, the research paper will be reviewed by one of the Associate Editors of the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT** regarding the suitability of the research paper for publication in the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT**. Research papers not found suitable for publication in the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT** at this stage will be rejected. Research papers found suitable for publication in the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT** will be reviewed by an independent reviewer. Based on the comments and recommendations of the independent reviewer, final decision regarding either acceptance or modification or rejection of the paper for publication in the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT** will be undertaken by the Editor of the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT**. The revised submissions will be reviewed by the Editor of the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT** before taking a decision about publishing the research paper in the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT**.

### Open Access

**INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT** is an open access journal. Open access norms of the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT** conform to the BOAI definition of open access. All research papers published in the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT** are freely available online without any charge. The contents of the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT** can be read, downloaded, copied, distributed, printed, searched, or linked to full texts of the articles, or used for any other lawful purpose without prior permission from the publisher or the author.

### Copyright

The author(s) of the paper published in the **INDIAN JOURNAL OF POPULATION AND DEVELOPMENT** will have the copyright of the paper.
